Add 2024-01-09 agenda and minutes (#611)
solid/specification: meetings/2024-01-09.md

* VB: Perhaps what you said could be documented and people can see the why and have more discussion with people, in another meeting. See what you and also eP's point on hackmd being easy to minuting.
* HZ: The positions are not divergent perhaps. One is about editing and the other is for reading later. Maybe we can use hackmd and migrate somehow somewhere else.
* SC: Good point, maybe there's a way to push minutes in w3.org. We can ask PAC. But probably documented somewhere.
* eP: Second VB on possible problems and solutions. Link permanence, backups, etc. We may miss some options. Not sure about SocialWeb's approach re wiki. Getting people to scribe on IRC may be hard for people.
* VB: Prefer to keep it easier. Low bar for people to contribute by scribing. 
* SC: Long time ago, minutes were copied into wiki but in recent years... social web has an index of the minutes and links to a standalone document generated by the IRC bots published under w3.org.

> ACTION: Create issue and document considerations on minuting in w3c-cg/solid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ACTION: SC to create issue and document considerations on minuting in w3c-cg/solid.
```

ACTION: Move discussion on 2023 election procedure into dedicated document in w3c-cg/solid. SC to PR.

ACTION: Create issue to template the procedure. SC.

* eP: We also have hackmd. Is that just scratchpad now? Anything else we should capture from there. https://hackmd.io/a6jv3bfnQBGace7Ajd_ePw
* SC: Tie-breaking is something we can review.
* VB: Have been reading about MeekSTV, not sure if that's most suitable.
* SC: IIRC, it is used for TAG/AB elections.
* eP: Perhaps add something about python2? the command-line to explictly use python2 for anyone that's not too familiar. 

### Solid Ecosystem Monitor
URL: https://virginiabalseiro.github.io/solid-ecosystem-monitor/

* VB: Added table with election results data.
* VB: This monitor will be reorganised. Have pages for meetings, elections, and other stuff.

> * VB: Table on elections results is at the bottom. Counting the votes each candidate received per rank, and percentage of total votes for each rank. We can draw interesting conclusions. Could be useful. Also to evaluate the system re STV, tied to some of htese observations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* VB: Table on election results is at the bottom. Counting the votes each candidate received per rank, and percentage of total votes for each rank. We can draw interesting conclusions. Could be useful. Also to evaluate the system re STV, tied to some of these observations.
```

* SC: We said we would move this to solid contrib. 
* VB: Yes. We can move it. 
* eP: I objected to having it in the same repo but if you think it's more convenient to have it there.. I'd prefer a dedicated repo. 
* VB: I think that's fine.
* SC: No strong preference. 

> * SC: I don't know how to evaluate the results ina meaningful and fair way without undertsnading MeekSTV well. I'll trust the consensus in W3C as to why they use it and keep it aligned to rest of election stuff there. Easier to work with a process that they have than doing out own things, in case we have questions, etc. 
> * SC: That doesn't mean we cannot do additional things on top of things we observe, charter has some constraints on only one person from each affiliation, we can add other contraints on other things. I don't know if there shoulld be some thresholds. Comes down to the math. Looking at these results: one of the winners has 39% unranked. I don't know how to interpret but at face value from 41 ballots 39% said they did not want the candidate but they got a seat. I don't know what to do with that information but it does stand out. It had to do with the method. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* SC: I don't know how to evaluate the results in a meaningful and fair way without understanding MeekSTV well. I'll trust the consensus in W3C as to why they use it and keep it aligned to rest of election stuff there. Easier to work with a process that they have than doing our own things, in case we have questions, etc. 
* SC: That doesn't mean we cannot do additional things on top of things we observe. Charter has some constraints on only one person from each affiliation; we can add other constraints on other things. I don't know if there should be some thresholds. Comes down to the math. Looking at these results: one of the winners has 39% unranked. I don't know how to interpret that, but at face value, from 41 ballots, 39% said they did not want the candidate, but they got a seat. I don't know what to do with that information, but it does stand out. It had to do with the method. 
```

* SC: I worry about linkability. Like I said it's archivable but when you need to link to the minutes the archived version. I've noticed some types of documents were not archviing the whole thing. And sometimes part of larger discussion at W3c about using w3c space for w3c objects.. as opposed to 3rd party, including EDs, minutes, and so on. Some preference at w3c that things are kept under w3.org. 
* VB: Perhaps what you said could eb documented and people can see the why and have more discussion with people, in another meeting. See what you and also eP's point on hackmd being easy to minuting.
* HZ: The positions are not divergent perhaps. One is about editing and the other is for reading later. Maybe we can use hackmd and migrate somehow somewhere else.
* SC: Good point, maybe there's a way to push minutes in w3.org. We can ask PAC. But probably dopcumented somewhere.
* eP: Second VB on possible problems and solutions. Link permanence, backups etc. We may miss some options. Not sur eabout SocialWEb's approach re wiki. Getting people to scribe on IRC may be hard for people.
* VB: Prefer to keep it easier. Low bar for people to contribute by scribing. 

> * SC: Long time ago minutes were copied into wiki but in recent years... social wbe has an index of the minutes and links to a standalone document generated by the IRC bots published under w3.org.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* SC: Long time ago, minutes were copied into wiki but in recent years... social web has an index of the minutes and links to a standalone document generated by the IRC bots published under w3.org.
```

ACTION: Create issue and document considerations on minuting in w3c-cg/solid.

* VB: Another comment on migrating the repos. Prefer to have some duplication over splitting the minutes.
* SC: May break links.

> * VB: We would not delete old ones. Just duplicate so it is more intuitive to find. 

Author: > Don't duplicate. Redirects (whether automatic or manual) pointing to the "primary" should be put into whatever other locations.

Great point. We haven't made a decision on this yet and it's pending some of the action items and further discussion in the CG, but will keep this in mind. Thanks!
